5
1. Overview
2. Limitations
3. Making simple ani-cursor
4. Capturing
5. References
 
               AniProg Help
                   by
              Robert Rayment
               (Sep 2004)
 
 
  
1. Overview
   
   Program can create/edit animated cursors (*.ani)
   or ordinary cursors (*.cur).  Brief help is given
   by on-screen help boxes by pressing the ? buttons.
   Throughout, a distinction is made between the Left
   & Right mouse buttons indicated by L & R.
   
   Some simple ani-cursors are included and once
   opened can be tested by the Test ani or Test
   cursor buttons.  These buttons toggle between
   the test and standard cursor. Note also that
   ALT-A and ALT-C also does the toggling. 
   
   The file AniCursor.bas shows how to switch the
   cursors on & off.
 
2. Limitations
   
   All opened & saved images must be 32 x 32 pixels.
   This is normally the case for cursors but if a
   start image is loaded from an ico file it will
   only take 32 x 32 icons.  Only 1, 4, 8 & 24 bpp
   images can be made or captured.  With capturing,
   GIF palettes are always extended to 8 bpp.  JPGs
   are always 24 bpp and BMPs can be any of these.
   The sequency chunk in ani files is ignored.  It
   is often redundant. All palettes are assumed to
   be the same as the first one.  A maximum of 64
   frames can be designed. All frames are cycled
   through (ie cFrames=cSteps, see Ani.txt).
   
3. Making simple ani-cursor
   
   The program starts with a couple of frames and
   is ready to draw the first frame.  Make a quick
   drawing with a selected color & drawing tool.
   On the Effects menu Press the Copy L/R button
   with the R mouse button.  Then say Swirl L/R
   with the R button, Accept and Test ani.
   
   Next click Details and increase the Number of
   frames.  Then press Copy L/R, Swirl L/R and
   Test ani again.  Try altering the values in the
   Rates Table on the Details form.  HotX & HotY
   is the active point of the cursor and this can
   also be set on the Details form.
   
4. Capturing

   Right-clicking on one of the frames brings up a
   menu which includes capturing.  This asks for a
   BMP, GIF or JPG file which is then loaded into
   the capturing form.  A moveable 32 x 32
   rectangle defines the captured area.  Note that
   for images with a palette (ie 1,4,8 bpp) always
   capture from the same image for a set of frames
   else the palette indexes will not be correct and
   the ani-cursor likely to be all black.

5. References
   
   AniCursor.bas
   On www.AllAPI.Net
   Code by Jerry Grant (Jerry@jg-design.net)
   Visit his website at http://www.jg-design.net
   
   Centered palette
   Method from Stefan Casier Paint256
   
   The best Freeware software, I've found, for
   examining ani-cursors is:-
   'AniTuner' by Guillaume Di Giusto at
   http://www.gdgsoft.com
   
   
   Hopefully with the on-screen help boxes this is
   enough.
   